PostgreSQL_01
It is also called Postgres, is a free ,Open-source, and Powerful relational database.

it stores data in tables with rows and columns , just like excel sheets.


1: it's Very Strict And Reliable .
   It Follows rules Carefully so your data never gets corrupted.

    that's why banks, Uber , Instagram , and Big Companies use it .

2: It Uses SQL Language 
   To Talk to it , We use SQL commands .
   example: select * From Customers Where city = "karachi"

	Note : it is Specially Popular For Data Analytics , Reports , and 
               Complex Apps Because it can handle Advanced Queries  and                     	       lot's  Of Data types.

What Is DataBase .

A Database is simply a collection Of organized Data That can be Easily 
accessed , managed , and updated .

In Technical Terms: we can say 
1:it stores Data Electronically 
2:The Data Is organized in tables (Like excel sheets with rows and Columns)
3:You can Query the data using Language (Usually SQL )to read, insert , 
  Update and delete tha data.
4:The Database  System ensures consistency,  reliability , and Security for               the Data


What Is RDBMS ? 
RDBMS Stands For Relational Database Management System.

Relational: Data Is Organized into Tables (Which are related To each 	  	    Other)
Database :  A Collection Of Structured Data .

Management System :Software That allows You To Create , read ,update and delete data (using SQL).

So RDBMS is a Software that helps you to store data in tables , relate them to each other , and Perform Operations on them Using SQL .

Examples Of RDBMS : 
SQL--> PostgreSQL 
       MySQL 
       SQL Lite 
       Oracle Database 
       SQL  Server 


Why PostgreSQL ? 
1: Open Source 
2: Most Feature Rich and PowerFul 
3: Supports Complex Queries, joins, CTEs , Windows Functions 
4: ACID Compliant
5: Highly extensible (You can add your own data types , Operators,etc)
6: Support for NOSQL Features Also (JSONB, hstore)
7: Used For enterprise-grade applications 